---
title: 'Darmowe narzędzia do sprawdzania tekstu'
authors: mojk
date: '2017-09-19'
tags:
  - 'narzędzia'
  - 'warsztat'
  - 'instrukcje'
  - 'język'
  - 'manuale'
  - 'on-line-help'
  - 'pomoc-użytkownika'
coverImage: 'man-29749_640.png'
---

Z nieukrywaną przyjemnością publikujemy kolejny gościnny wpis od sympatyka
naszego portalu.

<!--truncate-->

Jack natrafił na naszą stronę szukając informacji na temat pisania. Los (albo
może bardziej Google) zdecydował, że znalazł on jeden z naszych
[wpisów](http://techwriter.pl/less-is-more-strikes-again/), w którym
wspominaliśmy o
[infografice](http://writing.rocks/how-to-write-a-sentence-infographic/) "How to
write a sentence". Infografika bardzo przypadła mu do gustu, więc postanowił do
nas napisać. A że ogólnie lubi pisać, bardzo szybko dał się namówić na gościnny
wpis pt. "Free Online Grammar Check Tools \[to Improve Your Writing\]".

## Kilka słów o autorze

Jack Milgram pisze dla
portalu [Custom-Writing.org](https://custom-writing.org/) , który jest źródłem
materiałów edukacyjnych oraz informacji na temat zdobywania wiedzy. Jednym z
elementów portalu jest blog poruszający tematy takie jak uczenie się, techniki
czytania i pisania oraz produktywność. Jack już na studiach rozpoczął swoją
karierę jako niezależny pisarz i wciąż podąża tą samą ścieżką. W swojej pracy
lubi najbardziej to, że może ją łączyć z podróżowaniem po świecie.

![](images/Jack-Milgram.jpg)

Jeśli chcecie skontaktować się z Jackiem, możecie to zrobić za pośrednictwem
jego profilu na
[Facebooku](https://web.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100013197910493) i
[Twitterze](https://twitter.com/Jack__Milgram).

### Free Online Grammar Check Tools \[to Improve Your Writing\]

Do you struggle when trying to find every single typo in your paper? No matter
how hard you try, you do not notice your mistakes, and your essay seems perfect
to you. Or maybe you are new at writing, and grammar rules aren’t your strong
suit yet. Do you struggle when trying to find every single typo in your paper?
No matter how hard you try, you do not notice your mistakes, and your essay
seems perfect to you. Or maybe you are new at writing, and grammar rules aren’t
your strong suit yet. No matter what the situation, here’s a trick: Try one of
the grammar check tools that are available online, free of charge! Even if you
are an experienced writer, these 20 free online grammar checkers will help you
improve the quality of all your papers!

### Here are the tools you can use to improve your papers

#### 1\. [Grammarly](https://www.grammarly.com/)

One of the best essay checkers and correctors, Grammarly will find all kinds of
mistakes and typos in your paper. It will give you suggestions to improve both
grammar and style, including word choice and sentence construction. It can also
help you detect plagiarism in your text.

#### 2\. [Grammar Check for Sentence](http://www.grammarcheckforsentence.com/)

This free online grammar check app will easily help you improve your writing.
Just type or copy your text into the empty box and click “Check.” The app will
analyze your text and underline the problems it finds. What is awesome is that
it will not only tell you what’s wrong (for example, an error or misspelling)
but it will also provide you with suggestions on how to correct your mistakes.

#### 3\. [GrammarCheck](http://www.grammarcheck.net/editor/)

This free online spell check tool will also assist you with your papers, be it a
short essay, a long thesis, or an article to be published on the Web or in a
journal. Enter your text in the special box and click “Free Check.” The app will
highlight the problematic parts of your writing, tell you what is wrong, and
provide advice on what to do about it.

#### 4\. [NounPlus](https://www.nounplus.net/grammarcheck/)

Another instrument designed to help both struggling and experienced writers,
NounPlus offers two free features: spell check and grammar check. The tool
detects mistakes and misspellings, and suggests how to change your essay or
paper to make it better.

#### 5\. [SpellChecker.net](https://www.spellchecker.net/)

This tool offers you to do a free online spell check, which is useful for any
writer, experienced or not. The instrument will highlight all the words that you
have written incorrectly, and it will give you a list of similar words to
replace the wrong word. This is very convenient for one simple reason: no one is
safe from typos.

#### 6\. [PaperRater](http://www.paperrater.com/)

PaperRater is a free online service that can not only check your grammar and
spelling but also suggest how to make your writing better. What is also helpful
about this tool is it will automatically score your papers depending on how many
issues it finds. For premium users, this tool will also detect plagiarism and
show you the matching text in your work.

#### 7\. [Language Tool](https://www.languagetool.org/)

This is an instrument that will help you check spelling and grammar not only if
you write in English, but also if you have text in French, German, Polish, and
many other languages. It includes 29 languages in total, according to our count.
And not only that: for most languages, it also includes a range of dialects to
choose from. Apparently, this is one of the most global pieces of grammar check
software you can find.

#### 8\. [Sentence Checker](http://sentencechecker.com/)

An online spelling and grammar correction software, this tool will also find
mistakes in texts in a wide range of languages. You can use it to correct
documents in 26 languages. A choice of different dialects for several languages
is also available.

#### 9\. [OnlineCorrection.com](http://www.onlinecorrection.com/)

This free online grammar corrector can help you check your essay and find the
mistakes present there. Even better: it can automatically correct these errors
if you choose that option. The tool gives you a choice between five different
dialects of English. If you are not a native English speaker or you moved to a
different English-speaking country, this is very convenient.

#### 10\. [Online-Spellcheck.com](http://www.online-spellcheck.com/)

Another marvelous tool to improve your text, Online-Spellcheck.com can do more
than just automatically find mistakes in your essay. Once you are registered, it
allows you to mark words correct that were mistakenly labeled as errors, for
your future convenience. This free online grammar corrector can also edit papers
in many languages and even identify the language of your text.

#### 11\. [After the Deadline](http://www.polishmywriting.com/)

A simple yet efficient free online grammar checker, this tool lets you edit your
paper by finding and highlighting the mistakes it contains. This software
underlines spelling mistakes, provides grammar suggestions, and even offers
advice on how to improve your style of writing.

#### 12\. [Proofread Bot](http://proofreadbot.com/)

This app will let you more than just check your paper and find the mistakes in
it. It will explain what was done wrong, showing you the grammar rules that were
not followed. Of course, you can use this essay checker free of charge.

#### 13\. [Spell Check Plus](http://spellcheckplus.com/)

Another wonderful tool to do a grammar check online, Spell Check Plus will
highlight the mistakes and faults in your text. It will also give you detailed
explanations of what might be wrong in your essay and offer you several ways to
correct the mistake or improve your grammar. It also automatically scores your
work.

#### 14\. [Hemingway Editor](http://www.hemingwayapp.com/)

Named after a
[famous American novelist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernest_Hemingway),
Hemingway Editor gives you an opportunity to check your paper, and provides you
with feedback on its style. Whether you are an experienced writer or a novice,
it will help you improve your writing and avoid mistakes that were previously
overlooked.

#### 15\. [Reverso](http://www.reverso.net/spell-checker/english-spelling-grammar/)

This wonderful grammar check software lets you find and correct the mistakes and
deficiencies that your paper might have. It can process texts both in English
and in French. Apart from pointing out the errors in the text, Reverso also
provides definitions of the words you might have written mistakenly, for you to
make sure that everything is correct.

#### 16\. [English Grammar Check](http://www.englishgrammarcheck.org/)

This tool will prove useful to anyone looking to fix their essay according to
the complicated rules of English grammar. It will perform spelling and a
punctuation check, as well as offer advice on how to improve your paper. Even if
you are sure the grammar in your paper is perfect, you should still try it: the
app can offer you advice on style as well.

#### 17\. [Scribens](https://www.scribens.com/)

Another essay checker and corrector that you will find to be of use, Scribens
will detect the mistakes in your paper and offer you synonyms to choose from to
replace your repetitive words. It will also show you stats on your paper, such
as the number of words, sentences and paragraphs. This is especially important
for students because they often have strict requirements for word count.

#### 18\. [Free Online Spell Check](https://www.jspell.com/public-spell-checker.html)

One more useful grammar check app, Free Online Spell Check will reveal the
mistakes and faults in your essay and let you correct them immediately. For each
problem found in your text, the app will offer you several variants to choose
from, and you will be able to select the best one. What is unique to this tool
is that it has a button that allows you to post your just-checked text on
Twitter. Undoubtedly, many users will find this function very helpful.

### Try a few grammar checkers and choose the best for you

There you go. A list of 20 online grammar checkers that will assist you and
spare you a lot of trouble finding mistakes! They will improve the grammar,
style, and many other aspects of your writing. No matter how much experience you
have (or do not have) in writing, these apps will do a good job of helping you:

- For inexperienced writers, the benefit is clear: they will point out your
  mistakes and give you some tips on how to improve your document.
- For experienced writers, however, there is also a benefit: no one has writing
  completely free of typos or the occasional easily overlooked errors!

So, do not hesitate to try one of these 20 grammar check tools. Or, better yet,
try a few of them and choose one or several that increase your performance and
productivity.

## Podziękowanie od techwriter.pl

Dziękujemy Jackowi za ten artykuł. Nam najbardziej przypadły do gustu oczywiście
narzędzia, które wspierają język polski, czyli Language Tool i Sentence Checker.
W zestawieniu na pierwszym miejscu znalazło się narzędzie Grammarly, o którym
[pisaliśmy jakiś czas temu](http://techwriter.pl/grammarly-narzedzie-do-sprawdzania-pisowni/).
Warto też wymienić Hemingway Editora, o którym nie tak dawno w swoim
[poście](http://idratherbewriting.com/2017/07/27/why-simple-language-isnt-so-simple/)
wspominał też Tom Johnson. To narzędzie nie tylko sprawdza pisownię, ale pomaga
też prościej pisać poprzez oznaczanie w tekście ciężkich do zrozumienia zdań,
strony biernej i niepotrzebnych słów. A które narzędzie wydaje się dla Was
najbardziej odpowiednie? Czekamy na Wasze komentarze.

Jeżeli macie pomysły na artykuły, lub gotowe teksty, dajcie nam znać. Bardzo
chętnie publikujemy treści koleżanek i kolegów po fachu, ponieważ jest to dla
Was świetna okazja, żeby podzielić się ze światem swoją wiedzą, doświadczeniem i
przemyśleniami.
