---
title: 'Soap! Just Wants to Have Fun'
authors: mojk
date: '2014-12-09'
tags:
  - 'news'
  - 'z-kraju'
  - 'konferencje'
  - 'społeczność'
  - 'soap'
  - 'articles-in-english'
coverImage: 'soap.jpg'
---

To make the soap! story complete, we're giving you translation of our general
[summary](../mydlo-lubi-zabawe/index.md) of the soap! conference prepared by the
soap! team. Enjoy! What do soap, pink color, an old cable factory, a white
terrier, a scooter, coffee, and a selfie in a bathroom all have in common?

<!--truncate-->

At first glance, it might be hard to see any connection whatsoever. Yet, the
participants of this year’s [soap!](http://soapconf.com/) conference know all
too well what connects these dots. For those who do not know, further reading
should shed some light on this mysterious compilation, so do continue.

soap! 2014 took place at [hub:raum](https://www.hubraum.com/), a venue located
on 12 Przemysłowa Street in Kraków. What used to be a cable factory is now
adapted as an office space. It has a certain post-industrial vibe, which only
adds to its unique atmosphere. Particularly interesting was the fact that
hub:raum while providing space for a conference was also an active co-working
space filled with all kinds of individuals. One of them commutes to work by
means of a scooter (one of those child-toy resembling, leg propelled vehicles)
and another one shares his daily-work toils with a white terrier, who loves
chasing after a rubber ball. Curiously enough, none of these oddities disrupted
the conference flow.

### Here We Come

This year we were honoured to be an official media partner of soap!, so we
didn’t try to be late like the last time (for all those who don’t remember,
let’s just say, it didn’t work out ). We climbed the stairs up to the last floor
and were greeted by receptionists with a warm smile and a participant package.
It contained a notepad, stickers, and an ID badge, so pretty much everything you
need to get going. Combining an ID badge with the fold out conference schedule
was a brilliant idea. We grabbed some pens, which were distributed in abundance
in all colors and shapes and made a beeline for the catering corner to replenish
our caffeine levels. There was nothing to fuss about - the coffee was good,
warm, and in appropriate amounts. We took our places and waited for the opening
talk. During our wait we took in our surroundings. The floor, switches,
curtains, and raw concrete surfaces which brought to mind a DIY store, were
adorned with modern elements. Such stylistic approach was pleasing to the eye
and it corresponded well with the overall vibe of the conference.

### Let’s Start!

One of the soap!’s co-founders, [Paweł Kowaluk](http://soapconf.com/team/) took
the floor, as it fell to him to deliver the opening talk for soap! 2014. This
year edition’s tagline was “a clean start”. Paweł illustrated this idea to the
conference participants along with a quick summary of contemporary trends in the
technical communication area. The tech-comm scene in Poland is still in its
infancy and it’s up to us what shape and form it will take in the near future.
This is not an easy task, as there is barely anything to build on. However, as
Paweł tried to convince his audience, this is actually a good thing, because
without all the unnecessary baggage of the past, we can shape the Polish
technical communication in any way we want. After that, Paweł moved on to
discuss various directions the technical documentation is heading to. According
to him, it’s main focus should be on the client instead of the product. The
users expect information, that will allow them to quickly start using the
product, that will display only when needed, and is easily searchable. Paweł
even risked a thesis, that sometimes products could do without any documentation
whatsoever. As an example, he provided the developers of the
[Omnipaste application](https://www.omnipasteapp.com/). They have set themselves
a goal to create a user interface so clear and intuitive to use, that it didn’t
require any conventional documentation. Instead, they have embedded short
multimedia presentations into the product website itself, that concisely
illustrate the capabilities of their product. Surely it is an interesting
approach and although it cannot be applied in complicated business products, one
should not forget that voluminous user manuals aren’t always the best solution.

### Meanwhile in the Bathroom

I must admit, that bathroom doesn’t rank high among the topics that permeate the
reports from technical communication conferences, but this time we had to make
an exception. Although, we by no means intend to praise the bathroom fixtures,
it looks like the organizers of soap! wanted to make every available space serve
it’s (soapy) purpose to the best of its abilities. Therefore, they designated
toilets as a space for making selfies (we suspect that
[groufies](http://www.dailytech.com/Huawei+Trademarks+Groufie+a+Panoramic+Selfie/article34889.htm)
were also allowed). The bathroom mirror fashioned a small post-it note
encouraging everyone to overcome their inner shyness and snap a pic. For the
especially creative and adventurous ones, various props were provided, including
but not limited to swimming goggles and a climbing helmet. As it turned out,
quite a few brave daredevils took up the challenge and the effects could be seen
on the @SoapConf Twitter profile or using the #soapkrk hashtag.

### Networking Opportunities

soap! wasn’t just about the talks and presentations. The conference organisers
didn’t forget about the less formal part which is the networking. After the
first day, the participants could exchange ideas and share experiences over a
glass of wine at a nearby wine-bar and the second day was topped with a farewell
party in one of the clubs. As we all know, nothing binds technical writers
together better than toasting to good content.

### A Handful of Facts

And now for a bunch of solid facts. We have obtained this data from the
conference organizers, so it’s not a figment of our merry creativity as is the
case with all that we have written above. 142 people participated in the first
(free of charge) day of the conference, 98 in the second (paid). The
participants consumed: 400 cups of coffee and tea, and 700 glasses of water and
juice. During those 2 days, there were in total 18 talks and 3 workshops, led by
25 speakers and trainers from Poland, Germany, France, UK, Spain, Austria,
Canada, US, and India. The participants represented companies such as Dassault
Systems, IBM, VSoft, Electrolux, Ericpol, Avast Software, Interlingua Language
Services GmbH, Autodesk, Roche, Motorola Solutions, and Google, among others.
The talks covered various topics like documentation for API, gamification, UX,
DITA, storytelling, silos, content management strategies, and Agile.

### Let’s Sum Up

Considering organisational aspects (the talks were covered in separate
articles), the conference left us with a pleasant impression. Clearly, it is
created by people who do it with lots of passion and commitment, yet without
having a stick up their... (which is perfectly illustrated by the photo below).

![_DSC7032](images/DSC7032.jpg)

There were a couple of minor shortcomings but nothing serious enough to make it
worth mentioning. Besides, such trivial technical flaws are a part of every
conference. To cut a long story short, there was good coffee, tasty food, great
people, a relaxed and friendly atmosphere.

Cindy Lauper once sang that ‘Girls Just Want To Have Fun’, well, now we know
that soap! wants it too! We will definitely come back next year.

Translated: Piotr Milewski Proofread: Paweł Kowaluk
